Make all `longjmp` and `pthread_exit` related behavior TBD (#31)
rust-lang/project-ffi-unwind: rfcs/0000-c-unwind-abi.md

The ["Analysis of key design goals"][analysis-of-design-goals] section analyzes
how well the current design satisfies these constraints.

* **Changing from `panic=unwind` to `panic=abort` cannot cause undefined
  behavior:** We wish to ensure that choosing `panic=abort` doesn't ever create

>   undefined behavior (relate to `panic=unwind`), even if one is relying on a

Reviewer: It's not immediately clear to me what this parenthetical means. Maybe "changing from `panic=unwind` to `panic=abort` never creates undefined behavior", if that's the intent?

Reviewer 2: Agreed that phrasing is clearer

Author: Oops, I think I copied this bullet from a conversation somewhere and didn't read it closely. Glad that adding the backticks happened to draw attention to it!

>   behavior:** We wish to ensure that choosing `panic=abort` doesn't ever create
>   undefined behavior (relate to `panic=unwind`), even if one is relying on a

Author: ```suggestion
  behavior:** We wish to ensure that changing from `panic=unwind` to `panic=abort` never creates undefined behavior (relate to `panic=unwind`), even if one is relying on a
```

  languages) to raise exceptions that will propagate through Rust
  frames "as if" they were Rust panics (i.e., running destrutors or,
  in the case of `unwind=abort`, aborting the program).
* **Enable error handling with `longjmp`:**
  As mentioned above, some existing Rust libraries use `longjmp`. Despite the
  fact that `longjmp` on Windows is [technically a form of
  unwinding][forced-unwinding], using `longjmp` across Rust
  [POFs][POF-definition] [is safe][longjmp-pr] with the current implementation

>   of `rustc`, and we would like this to remain safe.

Reviewer 2: I would say something like

"using `longjmp` across Rust POFs is something that existing libraries rely upon today to interoperate with Ruby, Lua, and other C APIs based on longjmp. Althogh this RFC doesn't fully enable this use case, it is meant to be 'forwards compatible' with a future RFC that will define the correct way to interoperate with longjmp-based APIs. (That ffi-unwind working group intends to pursue this RFC.)"

`extern "C"` or by entering Rust from another language via an entrypoint
declared with `extern "C"`, caused undefined behavior.

This RFC retains most of that undefined behavior, with one exception: with the
`panic=unwind` runtime, `panic!` will cause an `abort` if it would otherwise
"escape" from a function defined with `extern "C"`.

## Interaction with `panic=abort`

If a non-forced foreign unwind would enter a Rust frame via an `extern "C
unwind"` ABI boundary, but the Rust code is compiled with `panic=abort`, the
unwind will be caught and the process aborted.

> However, unwinding from another language into Rust through an FFI entrypoint

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like:

> With the exception of the above case, however, unwinding from another language into Rust through an FFI entrypoint declared with `extern "C"` is always undefined behavior, and is not guaranteed to cause the program to abort under `panic=abort`.

An alternative of course would be to say that the old text is correct, it's just that longjmp and pthread-exit **may not unwind**, so using those on platforms where they have different behavior is potentially UB.

| `panic=abort`  | `"C unwind"` | `panic!` aborts                       | abort                   |
| `panic=abort`  | `"C"`-like   | `panic!` aborts (no unwinding occurs) | UB                      |

The interaction of Rust frames with C functions that deallocate frames (i.e.
functions that may use forced unwinding on specific platforms) is not specified
in this RFC. However, we do specify that deallocating

> non-[POFs][POF-definition]s in this way is undefined behavior.

Reviewer 2: I sort of like the old setup, which I found somewhat clearer. Can we just change the "When deallocating Rust POFs" to say "this RFC does not fully specify this behavior. For now, it must be considered undefined, but the project-ffi-unwind group expects to create some path that enables POF frames to be safely and correctly deallocated via longjmp. However, additional annotations may be required."

Author: I think alluding to new annotations in this RFC would be premature, but I'll add something along those lines.

Reviewer 2: The main thing is "you may have to change the source in some way"

Reviewer 2: The text you added seems fine.

let the exception pass through uncaught or to catch some or all foreign
exceptions.

> We would also like to specify conditions under whch `longjmp` and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We would also like to specify conditions under which `longjmp` and
```
